Date: 18 Feb 2015

# Git --porcelaind and Sed

Git, the de-facto version control tool, has many, many commands and options. Most of possible combinations are never used / explored for most users. One of them is the **--porcelain** option.

This option, present in some commands as by example *git status*, forces output to be well formatting for use as input for other programs. I'll explain you one possible use what helped me in some cases.

Imagine you are _branched_ to test or prove a crazy feature. Things didn't work as spected and you change yor mind. You didn't *git add*ed nor *commit*ed anything. You want to delete it all!

Deleting branch with *git branch -d* <branch_name> just deletes the branch. The upper case *-D* don't aid in this case, due your branch has no commits.

For modified files is as easy to *git checkout .* which restores your modified files to the latest commit. But for added files, you have to delete one by one with the *rm* operative system command. But, wait! Can I *rm* all? NOT! It will make a lot of changes prepared to _stash_ in your directory!

Imagine you have this *git status*

```$ git status
app/assets/stylesheets/scaffolds.scss
app/views/users/index.html.erb
app/views/users/index.json.jbuilder
app/views/users/show.json.jbuilder
db/migrate/20150214195644_create_users.rb
```

if you type the __--porcelain__ option is transmuted as

```$ git status --porcelain
?? app/assets/stylesheets/scaffolds.scss
?? app/views/users/index.html.erb
?? app/views/users/index.json.jbuilder
?? app/views/users/show.json.jbuilder
?? db/migrate/20150214195644_create_users.rb
```
Then comes to help us the **sed** command. This stands for *stream editor*

Try this:

```$ git status --porcelain | sed s/\?\?/rm/ | bash```

And your files will be deleted. A no one file that is not in the list!

If you wonder what it makes, here is the solution: the __regular expression__ changes ?? by rm. And finally, the result is passed to bash to do the dirty work.
