Date: 26 Dec 2014

# From Delphi to Ruby

### What is Delphi?
A thing what wondered me when started to learn *Ruby* was some similitudes with *Delphi*. As you may know, Delphi is no more than *Object Pascal*, an ancient language with a lot of improvements made by [Embarcadero](http://www.embarcadero.com/products/delphi) since they acquired Delphi to _Imprise Tehcnologies_, former _Borland_.
Today Delphi can generate code for Windows, MacOS, iOS and Android with some caveats, but it's possible.

### Similarities
At first glance, blocks not only are formed _alla C_ with the curly brackets **{ ... }**, in *Ruby* you can also use the <code>do ... end</code> syntax, similar to <code>begin ... end</code> of Pascal. 

Another similitude is you can separate sentences with semicolon ";", despite it's considered a bad practice, due it is only necessary when putting more than one sentence in a line. If you write a sentence for line, the line end is enough.

And there are more: 

* sections of visibility inside <code>class</code> declaration use same words: <code>private, protected, public ...</code> and act as a sections separators, just as Object Pascal does.
* the <code>null</code> value is named <code>nil</code>, exactly as Pascal. 

### The mythical one line Fibonacci calculation

*Ruby* is concise. Very concise. As a sample for my Pascalian readers, this is a function to calculate n Fibonnaci number:

<pre><code>:::ruby
def fibonacci(n)
  (n &lt; 2) ? 1 : fibonacci(n-2) + fibonacci(n-1)
end
</code></pre>

### More to come

I guess I'll discover more similarities. It's just a bet to myself :)

